# program-synthesizer-python
This tool synthesizes a Python program that implements the behaviors specified in the Design Abstraction Language.

## Overview

Each primitive in the behavioral abstraction language defines an unambiguous computable transformation that is mapped onto an implementation structures represented as Abstract Syntax Trees. The semantic model establishes the authoritative meaning of those transformations, and it is those semantics that drive the entire implementation process. The synthesis package provides the metadata required to realize the program from its semantic definition by constructing the implementation using the Abstract Syntax Trees, it is generated by the engine.

The result is a program that is no longer the programmer’s best attempt to realize the meaning of the design; it is meaning itself being realized through computation. 

## Automated Program Synthesis 

While it may be tempting to think of this as automated development, I do not think that description is correct. It is more accurate to describe it as automated program synthesis from meaning. Although the system automatically produces code, the responsibility of the developer has not disappeared; it has been shifted upward to the design itself, where the meaning of the system is established and then deterministically realized as a program.

## Deterministic Nature
In this process, the program is deterministically established when the computable semantic model is constructed through the mapping of semantic primitives onto implementation structures represented as Abstract Syntax Trees. This tool simply realizes that mapping and the process is actually very straightforward to implement. I emphasize the deterministic nature of this process because many of the other techniques being explored are probabilistic and generative. This approach is fundamentally different. The implementation is not inferred, predicted, or approximated; it is directly realized from the semantic meaning established in the model.

# Usage

Example:
```
python3 main.py --package ./packages/synthPackage.json 
```

# Overview

This tool will read each entry in the synth package and for each behavior it will:
- Create a function with the name
- Add log statements for the behavior
- Add log statements for the participants before behavior
- synthesize the program from the transformations
- Add log statements for the participants after behavior

The actual synthesis from the transformations is done by first reading the type of transformation. Then using that it will populate the AST node and use that to generate the code. I'll start with just the set operation to establish the structure.

For example:
```
{
    "behavior": "behavior1",
    "pre_participants": [
        "book"
    ],
    "transformations": [
        {
            "targetParticipantName": "book",
            "keys": [
                "name"
            ],
            "valueParticipantName": "Harry Potter"
        }
    ],
    "post_participants": [
        "book",
        "name4"
    ]
}
```
will become
```
def b_behavior1(book):
    semanticLogger.logBehavior("behavior1")
    semanticLogger.logPreParticipant("book")
    book["name"] = "Harry Potter"
    semanticLogger.logPostParticipant("book")
```

Upcoming changes:
- I need to add an export synth package to the engine that will create the required package
- In the engine, I need to specify the relevant metadata for more primitives
- I need to import the genreated package into this program and use it to synthesize the program
- I need to add support for more primitive types in this program
- Obviously this will actually be in the engine, I just wanted to use the python AST library because it is really convenient for now.
- Eventually I will think about scaffolding to connect to reality etc. 